Rename: Konnect introduction section (#5953)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/runtime-manager/runtime-instances/index.md

disable_image_expand: true
---

> A data plane node is a single self-managed instance of {{site.base_gateway}} that functions as a data plane. In {{site.konnect_saas}}, data plane nodes are part of [control planes](/konnect/runtime-manager/runtime-groups) and can be used to serve traffic to the control plane. Control planes manage and store configurations in {{site.konnect_saas}}, and data plane nodes are configured according to the configuration distributed by the control plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A data plane node is a single self-managed instance of {{site.base_gateway}} that acts as a proxy and serves traffic. 
In {{site.konnect_saas}}, data plane nodes are managed by [control planes](/konnect/runtime-manager/runtime-groups/). 
Control planes manage and store configurations in {{site.konnect_saas}}, and data plane nodes are configured according to the configuration distributed by the control plane.
```
It is much clearer now how much of this paragraph was just gibberish when we were trying to use the old terms.

{:.note}
> **Notes:** 
> * Gateway Manager includes a feature called Runtime Launcher which can be used with any of AWS, Azure, or GCP. This feature is currently in tech preview.
> * Kong does not host data plane nodes. You must install and host your own.
> * Gateway Manager allows users to select the {{site.base_gateway}} version that they want for their Quickstart scripts (except for cloud provider quickstart scripts for AWS, Azure, and GCP). This allows you to leverage official {{site.konnect_short_name}} scripts to start your gateways while reducing the number of errors due to an invalid script for a certain {{site.base_gateway}} version.

### Forward proxy support

{{site.konnect_product_name}} supports using non-transparent forward proxies to connect your {{site.base_gateway}} data plane with the {{site.konnect_saas}} control plane. See the [Forward proxy connections](/gateway/latest/production/networking/cp-dp-proxy/) {{site.base_gateway}} documentation for more information.

> ## Data Plane Node dashboard
> ### Data Plane Node dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data plane node dashboard
### Gateway data plane node dashboard
```

![gateway data plane node dashboard](/assets/images/docs/konnect/konnect-runtime-instance-gateway.png)
> **Figure 1:** This image shows the Gateway data plane node dashboard. For each Gateway data plane node, you can see analytics, and host details.

> ### KIC Data Plane Node dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### KIC data plane node dashboard
```

> ![KIC Data Plane Node dashboard](/assets/images/docs/konnect/konnect-runtime-instance-kic.png)
> > **Figure 2:** This image shows a KIC Data Plane Node dashboard. For each KIC data plane node, you can see details about the data plane node, analytics, and KIC status details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![KIC data plane node dashboard](/assets/images/docs/konnect/konnect-runtime-instance-kic.png)
> **Figure 2:** This image shows a KIC data plane node dashboard. For each KIC data plane node, you can see details about the data plane node, analytics, and KIC status details.
```
